Bio-Frescobi 
============

Frescobi, the Free Relational Eclectic System for the COllection of
Biological Information, is a Perl module and relational database
schema that I have used for nucleic acid and protein sequence analysis
for decades. Its key features are the 1 to 1 mapping of sequences to
short sequence identifiers and the annotation script, which can use an
assortment of sequence similarity tools, executing in parallel, to
characterize sequences. The 1 to 1 mapping is useful for generating
modest sized, non-redundant sequence datafiles.

Frescobi depends upon having a relational database to store the
sequence and annotation information. For most of its history,
PostgreSQL was used. However, since PostgreSQL has some administrative
overhead, Frescobi has been modified to use SQLite also.

For use with PostgreSQL, Frescobi was designed to work in an open
environment where authentication to PostgreSQL was not required. Thus,
in an environment where access to PostgreSQL is more controlled, it is
necessary to use the environment and/or file based authentication
mechanisms that are available in PostgreSQL, such as the .pgpass file
in the user's home directory.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, use the file, BUILD, as a guide. There are two
key environment variable prerequisites: BUILD_PREFIX and
PERL_PREFIX. Both of these variables are used in the configuration of
free software that uses a "configure" file or with Perl's Makefile.PL
or Build.PL configuration mechanisms.

For the free software configuration, the BUILD_PREFIX variable
specifies the top level of the installation environment and is used in
the "configure" script as the object of the "--prefix" options.

For Perl module configuration, there are two common installation Perl
scripts, either Makefile.PL or Build.PL. The environment variable, PERL_PREFIX, is used for the installation base. For Makefile.PL, the common command is

perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=$PERL_PREFIX

and for Build.PL, the command is 

perl Build.PL --install_base $PERL_PREFIX.

In addition, I've included the file, setup.sh, that provides some idea
on how to configure the environment.

DEPENDENCIES

This module requires other modules and libraries as specified in Makefile.PL.

Besides the Perl modules, this package also requires the following:

hmmer-2.3.2
The old NCBI blast package (ncbi-050604)
make-3.80 (the old NCBI blast packages needs this old, incompatible
           version to build correctly in my experience.)
A recent NCBI blast package (ncbi-blast-2.14.0 has been tested)
exonerate-2.2.0
fasta-35.4.7

TESTING

Running all the test scripts requires a working PostgreSQL environment
as well as availability of SQLite3.

For testing purposes, you need configure Postgres so that the user who
runs the test scripts can login to Postgres without specifying a
username or password and that the user can create databases.

The test scripts will not work without substantial configuration and
some editing. I hope to address this in the future.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2025 by Robert Bruccoleri

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.8.8 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

-------

The Non Ribosomal Peptide Synthase Hidden Markov Model database
(NRPS_HMM) was provided as part of 2metdb.cgi, a pipeline for
identifying microbial secondary metabolites, written by Dr. Jacques
Ravel. See

https://sourceforge.net/projects/secmetdb/files/2metdb_1.2.zip/download

for the original software distribution and

https://sourceforge.net/projects/secmetdb/files/secmetdb_licensing.txt/download

for the license (which was GNU General Public License Version 3)
 
-------

